### Project: [IOTA](../projects/iota.md)
### Date: 02 September 2017 
## Summary
  
Over the recent years, Layer-2 solutions (such as Bitcoin’s Lightning Network, and Ethereum’s Raiden) became a popular solution to enable fast transactions with lower transaction fees for conventional Blockchains. During the last months, the IOTA Team (most prominently Paul Handy, Lewis Freiberg and Chris Dukakis) have been working diligently to develop a similar approach in IOTA as an ad-hoc solution: Flash channels.
  
Flash is a bi-directional off-Tangle payment channel to enable instantaneous, high-throughput transactions. In essence, they provide a way for parties to transact at high frequency without waiting for each transaction to confirm on the public IOTA network. Instead, only two transactions will ever occur on the main IOTA network: opening and closing transactions of the Flash channel. An off-Tangle approach reduces the per-transaction overhead to a negligible level by creating signed transactions off the tangle and opens up a feeless transaction model for instant, token streaming.  
  
Flash channels is the first module to extend IOTA’s core capabilities to enable real time streaming of transactions. This functionality perfectly pairs with the fast and free settlement of the IOTA network for new and disruptive applications in the field of the Internet of Things and beyond.
  
tags: #iota, #update
## Source Link
[IOTA Blog post](https://blog.iota.org/instant-feeless-flash-channels-88572d9a4385)
