### Project: [Lykke](../projects/lykke.md)
### Date: 14 September 2017
## Summary
   
Lykke had started new contest in order to find a talented person to join research team in building a crypto-index.
Rules of the contest:  
* The contestants need to write a paper that highlights the goal and main specifications of the crypto index (weighting method, rebalancing interval, dividend policy etc.) and discusses possible advantages and disadvantages of the picked set of rules.
* The paper should be well written and short.
* Any formulas or plots should be also included in the document.
  
What is a Crypto index?  
When people talk about the performance of financial markets or its direction, they are looking at the market through the eyes of an index.
To help investors understand the stock market, the journalist Charles Dow introduced the first stock market index in the late 19th century and was followed by much more.
The U.S. equity markets alone have hundreds of indexes to choose from. Indexes work like a summary of the market by tracking the top stocks within a market.
Different indexes differ in how they track the market, namely in their specific rules for how they are calculated and maintained. These rules are predefined and known, as they are the core element of an index.
Different rules are due to different goals of indexes and are sometimes at odds with each other, liquidity and representativeness for example.

tags: #lykke, #announcement
## Source Link
[Lykke Streams Post](https://streams.lykke.com/Project/ProjectDetails/join-lykke-in-launching-a-crypto-index) 
