https://themerkle.com/what-is-moneros-helium-hydra-release/
### Project: [Monero](../projects/monero.md)
### Date: 18 September 2017
## Summary
As we have seen in the world of cryptocurrency over the past few years, developers often announce “milestone client updates.” Most of these releases introduce major changes, bug fixes, and even soft or hard forks. In the case of Monero, its Helium Hydra release is quite a major milestone, as it shakes things up in many ways. All of these changes will pave the way for a better Monero ecosystem moving forward, even though users will have to adapt to a new GUI in the future.

Helium Hydra is a mandatory update for all Monero holders, service providers, wallets, and exchanges. This new client also prepares the ecosystem for the upcoming hard fork on September 15th, which will increase the minimum ring signature size on the network. Additionally, the fork will blacklist duplicate ring members in a ring signature. Together with a long list of bug fixes, the Helium Hydra release also introduces some other tools people will thoroughly enjoy in the coming months and years.

One of the main improvements in the 0.11.0.0 client is an increase in the synchronization speed. As most cryptocurrency users are well aware, the initial blockchain sync of any cryptocurrency can be painstakingly slow and downright frustrating. Not too long ago, it took the average person about a week to synchronize with the Bitcoin blockchain for the first time. That situation has slowly been improved, and the Monero developers are now doing the same for their own blockchain.

tags: #monero, #hydra, #hardfork
## Source Link
[Monero’s Helium Hydra Release](https://themerkle.com/what-is-moneros-helium-hydra-release/)  
## Links on topic
[A Scheduled Protocol Upgrade is Planned for September 15](https://getmonero.org/2017/09/13/september-15-2017-protocol-upgrade-hard-fork.html)
[Monero 0.11.0.0 "Helium Hydra" Released](https://getmonero.org/2017/09/07/monero-0.11.0.0-released.html)