### Project: [NEO](../projects/neo.md)
### Date: 05 September 2017
## Summary
Today Neo council had published the statement to the NEO-community regarding the lastest announcement from the China's Central Bank and further steps in project development.  
In the announcement, NEO council has stated that from the beginning NEO was an open-source project that had completed refundable ICO, the first ever in token-raising history.
From September 7, 2016, when the ICO took place, to October 17, 2016, when NEO’s mainnet was launched, all participants were at liberty to demand a full refund.
In light of the ever more explicit ICO regulation requirements released globally, NEO decided to extend the refund option. Those who participated in the seed-round financing, ICO1 and ICO2 may contact contact@neo.org prior to Oct. 17, 2017, to be fully refunded after sending back all NEO tokens obtained from ICO.  
In addition, NEO Council is making strenuous efforts in prompting NEO’s sustainable development under existing laws and regulations. In Q4 2017, NEO will work with international legal advisors to establish a legal framework which is compliant in major countries for smart contracts running on top of NEO to adopt.
Today, NEO Council has obtained sufficient resources to support its technological R&D and ecosystem development for the next few years.

tags: #neo, #ico, #announcement, #regulations
## Source Link
[NEO Reddit thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/NEO/comments/6y7q49/a_statement_from_neo_council/) 
