### Project: [Ripple](../projects/ripple.md)
### Date: 26 October 2017
## Summary
  
In order to continually improve the health of XRP markets globally, Ripple Team shares regular updates on the state of the market including quarterly sales, commentary on previous quarter market developments and company-related announcements.
  
In Q3 2017, market participants purchased $19.6 million directly from XRP II, LLC — Ripple's registered and licensed money service business (MSB).
These participants tend to be institutional buyers and their purchases include restrictions that mitigate the risk of market instability due to potential subsequent large sales.
Additionally, XRP II, LLC sold $32.6 million worth of XRP programmatically as a small percentage of overall exchange volume.
  
Q2 saw drastic increases in XRP volatility as digital asset prices soared, but the “relative normality” reached at the end of the previous quarter continued in Q3. The high watermark for 30-day volatility of daily returns for Q3 was 8.7 percent, a far cry from the 36.1 percent in Q2.
Compared to the markets of younger digital assets, XRP’s price stability in Q3 is likely a sign of market maturation. The fact that XRP is now listed on 30 exchanges and traded an average of $179.3 million per day in Q3 points to significant development for an asset that was only trading on seven exchanges just six months ago. Additionally, its relative independence from Chinese markets, lack of involvement in ICOs, and clear governance model shielded XRP somewhat this quarter.

Although XRP price action during the quarter was not driven by broader digital asset volatility, XRP did not completely divorce itself from the rest of the market in Q3. Initially, its correlations to ETH and BTC were relatively low — 11.3 percent and 17.1 percent, respectively. However, as the ICO-related worries and Bitcoin fork concerns took hold in July, most digital assets began trading in unison and correlations shot up as a result.
Interestingly, before and after the fork, XRP remained highly correlated to ETH (96.9 percent), but unsurprisingly, diverged from BTC. From August 1 to September 1, BTC rallied and XRP held steady, sending correlations from 70 percent to -5 percent. This lack of correlation became pronounced on August 21, when Ripple began its campaign around Swell.
  
tags: #ripple, #quarter, #report
## Source Link
[Ripple Blog Post](https://ripple.com/insights/q3-2017-xrp-markets-report/) 
