### Project: [TenX](../projects/tenx.md)
### Date: 28 September 2017
## Summary
  
Julian Hosp, Co-founder and President at TenX, wrote a blog post about progess made in Q3 on COMIT Network.
Cryptographically-secure Off-chain Multi-asset Instant Transaction network (COMIT) is a protocol for connecting blockchains.
Julian is convinced ерфе adoption of this system will be seamless, will bring great benefits to all of its participants and lead to mass adoption of cryptocurrencies.
  
For COMIT to go live and be ready to be mass used, 3 crucial things need to be solved:  
* Definition of the routing protocol  
The process of routing defines how a transaction finds a path through a network from node A to B via an arbitrary amount of intermediate nodes.
How this works in COMIT is defined by the CRP — the COMIT Routing Protocol. Combining 3 features of spam protection, hop limit and channel opening times and adding them to a reactive not only proactive network, is the key to an effective COMIT Routing Protocol (CRP) that is not only highly effective in price, cost and speed, but can also withstand DDOS attacks.  
* Price Discovery  
In theory, COMIT can live without fees, however it is up to the nodes to charge a small fee to act as a hop. These nodes thereby are in competition and an equilibrium will be found quite fast. Since such a network is not centralised, the price movement would not be as fast as a centralised network and constant arbitraging balances out price differences.
Just like traditional ETFs (Exchange Traded Funds) get stabilised through arbitrage, such functionalities within COMIT would lead to stabilise prices of cryptocurrencies as a whole. Price movements would still be possible, but crazy peaks or lows would start to disappear. This will have a positive effect on the reputation of cryptocurrencies as a means to store value and would therefore lead to more cryptocurrency mass adoption.  
* Liquidity  
Payment Channels need to be filled with currency in order for one node being able to forward a payment to the next. Initially TenX can be a liquidity provider for the COMIT as company raised around 200,000 ETH during our token sale in June 2017.  
  
tags: #tenx, #commit, #update
## Source Link
[TenX's Blog](https://blog.tenx.tech/a-q3-update-on-comit-how-to-route-through-a-network-of-blockchains-b142a0e8dd14)  
