

### Project: [Tether](../projects/tether.md)
### Date: 11 September 2017
## Summary
Tether and Bitfinex Get Divorced From Legacy Finance

Tether was stable throughout 2016 and did not start to increase until March 2017. Tether’s value seemed to take off along with Bitcoin’s dramatic rise.

Then about this same time, Bitfinex and Tether were suddenly let go by Wells Fargo and as such effectively cut off from the banking system. They were both cut off because Bitfinex and Tether are partner companies. This caused the companies to file a lawsuit against Wells Fargo.

The Hackernoon article suggests Tether solved this problem by minting more Tether units, even though they said they would not increase their supply. Yet Tether has drastically increased its supply. The article said, “Tether claimed that the supply of tethers would not increase until their banking problem was solved, yet the supply of Tethers has actually increased by 482% since this announcement. From July 2017 to August 2017, the supply of Tethers has increased by over $100,000,000 ‘USD’.”  
The company can mint or create as many of them as needed. Nothing checks supply and demand of the asset. Furthermore, Tether says they are professionally audited, but BitCrypto’ed says there is no evidence of that claim. In a Medium article, the author also claims that Tethers have been used as fraudulent monetary instruments for margin trading on Bitfinex.

tags: #tether, #bitfinex, #fiat
## Source Link
[Tether’s Messy USD `Peg´ May Be a Liability For Bitfinex](https://news.bitcoin.com/tether-coin-may-be-a-precarious-us-dollar-peg/)  
## Links on topic
[Curious Case of Tethers](https://hackernoon.com/the-curious-tale-of-tethers-6b0031eead87)
