### Project: [Tezos](../projects/tezos.md)
### Date: 02 October 2017
## Summary
  
Tezos Team had published monthly report regarding the progress made during September. In the report were covered few topics:
* Organizations  
Tezos Foundation is establishing organizations to house teams working on the core protocol, building out the developer experience, and crafting products and applications.
The goal is for these organizations to serve as catalysts for the development of a diverse, vibrant ecosystem.
Individuals, startups, academic organizations, corporate entities, not-for-profits, public sector players are invited to work independently or collaboratively to build with and on the Tezos platform.  
* Core Development Team  
Tezos Foundation si looking for talented engineers interested in joining the developer team for the core protocol. Especially Tezos Foundation is seeking for PhDs or postdocs with a strong interest in OCaml and/or blockchains.  
* Technical Development  
Over the last several weeks, this has primarily taken the form of a variety of security dives into the codebase and analysis of the consensus algorithm. This is a preliminary step to conducting in-depth external audits. So far, team review has broadly confirmed the approach to design and architecture.  
* The Validator Program  
For the Tezos ecosystem to thrive, the Tezos community needs to build a strong and diverse validator network. Tezos' proof-of-stake implementation allows for token holders to participate in the network by creating new blocks. Participation is rewarded with a distribution of new tokens at the annual inflation rate, but is also costly in that participants will need to run an always-on, security-critical internet service. So we expect that many token holders will choose to delegate this function.
Tezos Team has recruited a respected leader in the blockchain space to lead our Validator program.
An announcement about further details on how to participate will be reported.  
  
tags: #tezos, #update
## Source Link
[Tezos Blog](https://www.tezos.ch/september-update.html#september-update) 
