### Project: [Trackr](../projects/trackr.md)
### Date: 13 September 2017
## Summary
  
Trackr team published blog post about token distribution plan as currently there’s an imbalance of token distribution ratio between the various groups (contributors, team and bounty) due to the crowdsale not being fully sold out.
  
Previously was planned to dstribute 65M tokens, of which 90% are reserved for the crowdsale, 5% for the team and bounty respectively. An additional 500K tokens were made available (outside the total available tokens) purely for the migration of presale tokens to crowdsale tokens, these are not counted in the calculation below.
Excess crowdsale tokens are automatically burned when the crowdsale finalizes.  
Given the above allocation breakdown, we have the following number of tokens:  
Crowdsale: 58,500,000 TKR  
Team: 3,250,000 TKR  
Bounty: 3,250,000 TKR  

Currently a little over 3,250,000 TKR tokens have been sold to contributors to the Trackr project, this is roughly the same amount as the team and the bounty. At this time it gives roughly a 33%/33%/33% split between the contributors, bounty and the team.
In this situation was taken decision to change distribution ratio as follows:  
Contributors: 3,250,000 + 2,750,000 + 600,000= 68%  
Bounty: 3,250,000–600,00 = 27%  
Team: 500,000 = 5%  
This is more favourable to contributors as their total portion higher. This allocation will take effect prior to any exchange going live but after the ICO and bounty concludes on the 15th September.
  
tags: #trackr, #token, #distribution
## Source Link
[Trackr's blog post](https://keepingstock.net/trackr-token-distribution-plan-8d8c5107f20a)
