### Project: [Zcoin](../projects/zcoin.md)
### Date: 12 September 2017 
## Summary
  
Zcoin's team have publishedd article with an overview of the major blockchain privacy mechanisms that are implemented in cryptocurrencies today and how Zcoin is different.  
According to the article, the main advantages of Zcoin are: no need for a mixer, very high anonymity in the many thousands (if not more) with a single mint and spend transaction and completely breaks transaction links between addresses, retains supply auditability, uses well researched cryptography.
Unlike the othe anonymity schemes which involve obscuring the real transactions with other inputs or transactions, the Zerocoin protocol completely breaks the transaction links between coins through the use of zero knowledge proofs.
In simple terms, a zero knowledge proof is a proof you did something or know something without revealing any other information other than you did it. For example, proving that you know a password without actually revealing the password.  
Zerocoin works by allowing you to burn coins up (otherwise known a Zerocoin mint) and then later redeem an equivalent number of brand new coins (known as a Zerocoin spend). These coins appear with no prior transaction history and are similar to newly mined coins. The zk-proof is used to prove that you indeed burnt coins without revealing the specific coins that you burnt and therefore are entitled to redeem an equivalent number of new clean coins.
This means that unlike in Coinjoin and Cryptonote where the anonymity set is limited by either the number of participants or the ring size, Zerocoin would allow you an anonymity set of every other person who has done a Zerocoin mint of a particular denomination and achieve this immediately. This allows the anonymity set to scale into the many thousands with a single Zerocoin mint and spend cycle. Also the coins truly have their transaction links broken as they appear as completely brand new coins compared to merely being obscured through previous methods
  
tags: #zcoin, #comparison
## Source Link
[Zcoin's Blog](https://zcoin.io/zcoins-privacy-technology-compares-competition/)
