### Project: [Zcoin](../projects/zcoin.md)
### Date: 19 September 2017
## Summary
  
After the completion of the Zcoin core upgrade, this opens up a range of improvements that the team can now work on:  
* libzerocoin improvements  
With the assistance of Tim Ruffing, he has identified several fixes that are required in the software library that underpins Zerocoin and Poramin has implemented them into our codebase based on 0.8. Work is being done to port these fixes over to the new core 0.13 and Zcoin team intend to roll this out by the end of the month or early October. Team believes this is the first major improvement to libzerocoin in a long while and represents a major step forward in providing a secure Zerocoin protocol. Our next step after implementing these fixes is to do a code cleanup and refactor of the Zerocoin code to make it easier to audit.
* GUI Revamp  
Besides the backend, Zcoin's team understand the importance of having a aesthetically pleasing graphical interface especially when it relates to the use of Zerocoin. Next task is making the wallet easy and intuitive to use.
* Znodes  
At the same time, work will begin on Znodes, the long awaited update that allows incentivized nodes to support the Zcoin network and makes Zcoin into a hybrid Proof of Work and Proof of Stake system. Znode owners will earn a proportion of the block rewards as an incentive to maintain a full node, keep it updated and maintain the network. A certain number of Zcoin will be required as a ‘collateral’ to start a Znode to discourage Sybil attacks. This number will be announced
* MTP Porting to new codebase
Zcoin team will port existing MTP code to the new 0.13 codebase so that they are ready to implement MTP as soon as researchers Alex Biryukov and Dmitry Khovratovich publish their revised paper with improvements to MTP both in the areas of security and performance. Team will only be able to comment on how long this will take when extended a copy of the revised paper which is expected sometime in October.
* Proof of Concept Ethereum Zerocoin mixer  
Tadhg is currently well underway with coding of his smart contract for ZETH (Zerocoin mixing on Ethereum). Zcoin team hopes to deploy a functional proof of concept mixer for Zerocoin on Ethereum soon: "We hope that this project will bring greater recognition of our project with the Ethereum community along with opening up synergies between the two currencies together with cross atomic swaps which allow decentralized conversion between Zcoin and Ethereum and vice versa"
  
tags: #zcoin, #dev, #update
## Source Link
[Zcoin's Blog](https://zcoin.io/zcoin-dev-update-september-2017-znodes-gui-libzerocoin-mtp-and-zeth/)
